Run.md, before:

# Run.md

## Machine Specs

**Environment**

- Platform: Google Colab (GPU runtime)
- OS: Linux (Ubuntu-based Colab VM)
- CPU: Colab VM multi-core CPU (default)
- GPU: NVIDIA T4 (16 GB VRAM)
- RAM: ~12 GB system RAM

**Software**

- Python: 3.10+ (Colab default at time of run)
- PyTorch: 2.x (preinstalled in Colab, CUDA-enabled build)
- CUDA: 11.x (whatever is bundled with the Colab PyTorch build)
- Other Python packages:
  - `torchvision`
  - `numpy`
  - `matplotlib`
  - `tqdm`
  - standard library modules: `math`, `json`, `random`

No custom CUDA/C++ extensions were used.

---

## Exact Commands

All commands are run inside:

> `DDIM_Inpainting.ipynb`

in order, from top to bottom.

### 1. Training

The final submitted model is trained with the following call in the **Training** cell:

```python
train(
    epochs=26,
    batch_size=128,
    lr=2e-4,

    steps=400,
    beta_start=1e-4,
    beta_end=2e-2,
    beta_schedule="cosine",

    base=128,
    emb=512,

    sample_every=1600,
    sample_steps=100,

    center_box=12,

    dc_repeats=3,
    dc_fixed_z=True,

    pred="v",
    p2_k=1.0,
    p2_gamma=1.0,

    hole_weight=8.0,

    seed=1234,
    clip_grad=1.0,

    ema_decay=0.999,
    warmup_steps=500,

    self_cond=True,
    eta=0.0,
    coord_conv=True,

    grad_accum=1,
)
```

This call:
- Trains the UNet + diffusion model for 26 epochs,
- Uses a cosine β schedule with steps=400,
- Saves the final checkpoint to last.pt (as implemented in the notebook).

2. Sampling / Inpainting

After training (or after last.pt already exists), I run the Sampling cell.

That cell:
1. Reconstructs the same model and diffusion config as in training:

- UNetDeep(in_ch=..., base=128, emb=512, out_ch=1, dropout=0.1, use_attn=True)
- Diffusion(DCfg(steps=400, beta_start=1e-4, beta_end=2e-2, beta_schedule="cosine"))
2. Loads the checkpoint from last.pt into the model / EMA model.
3. Runs DDIM inpainting on masked MNIST images using:
- steps = 400
- sample_steps = 100
- pred = "v"
- eta = 0.0
- self_cond = True
- coord_conv = True
- center_box = 12
- dc_repeats = 3
- dc_fixed_z = True

4. Writes:
- panel_final.png
- samples.png

There is no separate shell command; sampling is executed by running that Sampling code cell in the notebook.

3. Evaluation
For evaluation, I run the Evaluation cell after sampling.
That cell:
1. Uses the same model and diffusion setup as in sampling:
- steps = 400
- sample_steps = 100
- pred = "v"
- eta = 0.0
- self_cond = True
- coord_conv = True
- center_box = 12
- dc_repeats = 3
- dc_fixed_z = True

2. Runs DDIM inpainting on the validation set.

3. Computes:
- psnr_hole
- l1_hole
4. Saves the metrics to:
  ```text
  inpaint_metrics.json
```

Commit message:

Revise section headers and add evaluation note
Updated section headers for clarity and added note about evaluation call.

Run.md, after:

# Run.md

## Machine Specs

**Environment**

- Platform: Google Colab (GPU runtime)
- OS: Linux (Ubuntu-based Colab VM)
- CPU: Colab VM multi-core CPU (default)
- GPU: NVIDIA T4 (16 GB VRAM)
- RAM: ~12 GB system RAM

**Software**

- Python: 3.10+ (Colab default at time of run)
- PyTorch: 2.x (preinstalled in Colab, CUDA-enabled build)
- CUDA: 11.x (whatever is bundled with the Colab PyTorch build)
- Other Python packages:
  - `torchvision`
  - `numpy`
  - `matplotlib`
  - `tqdm`
  - standard library modules: `math`, `json`, `random`

No custom CUDA/C++ extensions were used.

---

## Exact Commands

All commands are run inside:

> `DDIM_Inpainting.ipynb`

in order, from top to bottom.

### 1. Training

The final submitted model is trained with the following call in the **Training** cell:

```python
train(
    epochs=26,
    batch_size=128,
    lr=2e-4,

    steps=400,
    beta_start=1e-4,
    beta_end=2e-2,
    beta_schedule="cosine",

    base=128,
    emb=512,

    sample_every=1600,
    sample_steps=100,

    center_box=12,

    dc_repeats=3,
    dc_fixed_z=True,

    pred="v",
    p2_k=1.0,
    p2_gamma=1.0,

    hole_weight=8.0,

    seed=1234,
    clip_grad=1.0,

    ema_decay=0.999,
    warmup_steps=500,

    self_cond=True,
    eta=0.0,
    coord_conv=True,

    grad_accum=1,
)
```

This call:
- Trains the UNet + diffusion model for 26 epochs,
- Uses a cosine β schedule with steps=400,
- Saves the final checkpoint to last.pt (as implemented in the notebook).

### 2. Sampling / Inpainting

After training (or after last.pt already exists), I run the Sampling cell.

That cell:
1. Reconstructs the same model and diffusion config as in training:

- UNetDeep(in_ch=..., base=128, emb=512, out_ch=1, dropout=0.1, use_attn=True)
- Diffusion(DCfg(steps=400, beta_start=1e-4, beta_end=2e-2, beta_schedule="cosine"))
2. Loads the checkpoint from last.pt into the model / EMA model.
3. Runs DDIM inpainting on masked MNIST images using:
- steps = 400
- sample_steps = 100
- pred = "v"
- eta = 0.0
- self_cond = True
- coord_conv = True
- center_box = 12
- dc_repeats = 3
- dc_fixed_z = True

4. Writes:
- panel_final.png
- samples.png

There is no separate shell command; sampling is executed by running that Sampling code cell in the notebook.

### 3. Evaluation
For evaluation, I run the Evaluation cell after sampling.
That cell:
1. Uses the same model and diffusion setup as in sampling:
- steps = 400
- sample_steps = 100
- pred = "v"
- eta = 0.0
- self_cond = True
- coord_conv = True
- center_box = 12
- dc_repeats = 3
- dc_fixed_z = True

2. Runs DDIM inpainting on the validation set.

3. Computes:
- psnr_hole
- l1_hole
4. Saves the metrics to:
  ```text
  inpaint_metrics.json
  ```
The evaluation call is contained entirely in that Evaluation notebook cell; it reuses the same diffusion configuration as training and sampling.
